RUN:

To use the ConeTrack GUI, open the "ConeTrack.m" file in MATLAB and select the "Run" menu option.

INPUT:

The input for the GUI is a MATLAB file (*.mat) saved as the output of the BisectoGraph GUI. The data in this file is described in 
"How to use BisectoGraph.txt" in the BisectoGraph GUI folder.  

OUTPUT:

The output is a MATLAB file (*.mat). It contains the growth cone boundary as detected and tracked by ConeTrack processing. The description of 
the output data is provided at the end of this file.

PROCESSING STEPS:

1. Import a file for processing using the GUI menu: File -> Import (.mat). The GUI will display the outline of the cell. Use the frame slider 
under the image to display a specific time frame. 

2. To activate the Cone Detection Controls, click the "Activate Cone Detection" checkbox. Use the top slider to define the critical size. Use the 
bottom slider to define the neck width. Changing these two parameters interactively changes the growth cone number and its cutoff base and, 
thus, the growth cone outlines. 

3. Once the critical parameters are adjusted to provide satisfactory detection of a cone of interest, the results can be displayed in the right 
panel by clicking the "Show Results" button. However, this feature inherited from the FiloTrack GUI is not particularly useful for the growth 
cone analysis. 

4. To activate Cone Tracking Controls, click the "Activate Cone Tracking" checkbox. The centroids of the detected cones from two consecutive 
time frames are shown together and pairwise association is marked by connected green dots. The three sliders specify the parameters for the 
critical distance, gap filling and duration filter (as described in the Method paper).

5. To display tracking results, click the "Show Results" button. The right panel now displays the time lines of all tracked growth cones as 
green vertical lines. The first line always represents the cell body. The filled gaps are marked as empty circles, although this feature is 
also inherited from the FiloTrack GUI and is not expected to be particularly useful for the growth cone analysis. The slider under the panel allows 
you to choose and highlight individual growth cone centroids in yellow. The beginning and the ending frames of a chosen track are shown also 
above the right panel. All this helps to assess the quality of the tracking. If needed, the parameters of the detection and tracking can be 
adjusted and the tracking process can be repeated. 

6. Since the geometry of the growth cones usually varies significantly for any given cell, the detection and tracking should be performed for 
growth cones one-at-a-time and saved separately using the menu: File -> Save Results (.mat).


OUTPUT DATA:

"fp" is the index (numerical label) of the saved object. fp=1 means that the object is the cell body. fp>1 means that this is one of the tracked 
 growth cones.

"mp" is the total length of the movie (the total number of the time frames)

. 

"fw" is the critical radius parameter
. 
"FL" is the neck width parameter
. 
"fd" is the critical distance parameter. 

"fg" is the ago filing parameter. 

"ff" is the time-life filter value. 



"i1" is the beginning time frame of the track.

"i2" is the ending time frame of the track. 



"nA" is the area of the growth cone as a function of time. 

"nCx" and "nCy" are the (x,y)-coordinated of the growth cone centroid.
 
"nConeBnd"is a cell array with each element being an [N x 2] matrix of (x,y)-coordinates of the growth cone boundary, where N is the number of 
 the boundary points at a given time frame.




 