RUN:

To use the ProActive GUI, open the "ProActive.m" file in MATLAB and select the "Run" menu option.

INPUT:

There are two types of inputs for this GUI: 1) a TIF file with the background intensity equal to zero and the object intensity greater than or equal to 1. 
It has to be a stack of several time frames. 2) a MATLAB file (*.mat) generated by the BisectoGraph GUI. The data in this file is described in 
"How to use BisectoGraph.txt" in the BisectoGraph GUI folder.   

OUTPUT:

There are two types of output for this GUI: 1) a TIF stack of images that display the boundary change with white and black pixels representing 
protruding and retracting parts of the cell, respectively, as shown in the right panel of the GUI. 2) a MATLAB data file (*.mat) with all the 
processing results. The description of the output data is provided at the end of this file.

PROCESSING STEPS:

1. Import a file for processing using the GUI menu: File -> Import -> Boundaries (.mat) or File -> Import -> Masks (.tif) depending on the type 
of file you have. The GUI will display the outline of the masked object in the top left panel. Use the frame slider under the image to display 
a specific time frame. The right panel displays the change of the cell between a given time frame t and the time frame t+Lag. By default the 
Lag=1, but this can be changed using the Lag slider under the right panel. White and black areas represent the protruding and retracting parts 
of the cell between the time points.

2. The bottom left panel displays either the protruding area (white), or retracting area (black), or the total area (white+black) as a function 
of time (blue curve) for a given selection of the Lag. To change the type of display, use the radio buttons in the "Type of Activity" and 
"Normalize by" panels on the right. The red horizontal line indicates the average over time value, also shown in the "Results" panel on the 
right. Other results include the maximum value of the selected activity type and the time point of the maximal activity. 

3. The "Results" panel also provides an option to display a smoothed curve through the data. Just click the "Smooth Curve" checkbox and adjust 
the "Smoothing Window" size as needed. The data will be displayed as a green curve and the smooth curve will be shown in blue.

4. To display the mean and maximum values of the activity as a function of Lag, click the "Run the Range" button. A new figure will appear with 
the results as a bar plot. The range can be controlled by the "up to" edit box.

5. To limit the measurement only to the quickly moving parts of the boundary, use the "Velocity Controls" panel at the bottom right corner. 
Click the "Include velocity calculations" checkbox to mark in red all boundary points moving with velocity higher than the "Filter" value 
(pixels per Lag). The filter slider allows you to change the Filter value. The bottom left panel now displays the percent of perimeter 
protruding faster than the Filter value. The "Run the Range" button now generates a bar plot of the mean and maximal percentile as a function 
of the Filter value. The range size can be controlled by the "up to" edit box.       

WARNING:

Make sure that you clicked "Run the Range" if you'd like the results of the corresponding measurements in the range to be saved. 


OUTPUT DATA: 



"Lag" is the time lag parameter.

"PrActF" is a cell array with each element being protrusive activity (i.e. protruding area) as a function of time for a given time lag.

"PrActB" is a cell array with each element being retracting activity (i.e. retracting area) as a function of time for a given time lag.
"PrActT" is a cell array with each element being total activity (i.e. protruding + retracting areas) as a function of time for a given time lag.

"PrActR" is a cell array with each element being [6 X Frm] matrix for a given time lag, where Frm is the number of time frames 
and 
 the rows 1 to 6 are PrActF/Area, PrActB/Area, PrActT/Area, PrActF/Perimeter, PrActB/Perimeter, PrActT/Perimeter, respectively.



"MeanActF" is the averaged over time activity PrActF as a function of time lag. 

"MeanActB" is the averaged over time activity PrActB as a function of time lag. 

"MeanActT" is the averaged over time activity PrActT as a function of time lag.

"MeanActR" is the averaged over time activity PrActR as a function of time lag.



"MaxActF" is the maximum over time activity PrActF as a function of time lag. 

"MaxActB" is the maximum over time activity PrActB as a function of time lag. 

"MaxActT" is the maximum over time activity PrActT as a function of time lag. 

"MaxActR" is the maximum over time activity PrActR as a function of time lag. 



"TActF" is the time of the maximum activity PrActF as a function of time lag. 

"TActB" is the time of the maximum activity PrActB as a function of time lag.

"TActT" is the time of the maximum activity PrActT as a function of time lag.

"TActR" is the time of the maximum activity PrActR as a function of time lag
.
 
"zMaxActF" is the maximum over time of the smoothed curve (PrActF) as a function of time lag. 

"zMaxActB" is the maximum over time of the smoothed curve (PrActB) as a function of time lag. 

"zMaxActT" is the maximum over time of the smoothed curve (PrActT) as a function of time lag.
 
"zMaxActR" is the maximum over time of the smoothed curve (PrActR) as a function of time lag.



"zTActF" is the time of the maximum of the smoothed curve (PrActF) as a function of time lag. 

"zTActB" is the time of the maximum of the smoothed curve (PrActB) as a function of time lag.

"zTActT" is the time of the maximum of the smoothed curve (PrActT) as a function of time lag
.
"zTActR" is the time of the maximum of the smoothed curve (PrActR) as a function of time lag
.

"MeanVelPer" is the mean percent of boundary protruding with velocity higher than a Filter value, given for a range Filter values.
"MaxVelPer" is the maximum of the percent of boundary protruding with velocity higher than a Filter value, given for a range Filter values. 
"TVelPer" is the time frame of the maximum of the percent of boundary protruding with velocity higher than a Filter value given for a range Filter values.  

"zMaxVelPer" is the maximum of the smoother curve (percent of boundary protruding with velocity higher than a Filter value), given for a range Filter values. 
"zTVelPer" is the time frame of the maximum of the smoothed curve (percent of boundary protruding with velocity higher than a Filter value), given for a range Filter values.  

