RUN:

To use the FiloTrack GUI, open "FiloTrack.m" file in MATLAB and select the "Run" menu option.

INPUT:

The input for the GUI is a MATLAB file (*.mat) saved as the output of the BisectoGraph GUI. The data in this file is described in 
"How to use BisectoGraph.txt" in the BisectoGraph GUI folder.  

OUTPUT:

The output is a MATLAB file (*.mat). It contains all the measurements and data produced by FiloTrack processing. The description of 
the output data is provided at the end of this file.

PROCESSING STEPS:

1. Import a file for processing using the GUI menu: File -> Import (.mat). The GUI will display the outline of the cell. Use the frame slider
 under the image to display a specific time frame. 

2. To activate Filopodia Detection Controls, click the "Activate Filopodia Detection" checkbox. Use the top slider to define the critical radius. 
Changing the critical radius interactively changes the location of the filopodia bases. Use the bottom slider to define the critical lengths. 
The filopodia longer than the critical length are marked by red skeletons and will be included in further analysis. The protrusions shorter 
than the critical length are marked by yellow skeletons and will be excluded from further analysis. 

3. Once the critical parameters are adjusted to provide satisfactory detection of all filopodia, the results can be displayed in the right panel 
by clicking the "Show Results" button. Top and bottom parts of the panel display the filopodia number and mean length as a function of time, 
respectively. The line above the panel shows the average over time number and length of filopodia plus-minus one standard deviation. For any 
given time frame the GUI also shows the number and mean length of filopodia and the perimeter of the cell body in the "Filopodia Detection 
Controls" box.

4. To activate Filopodia Tracking Controls, click the "Activate Filopodia Tracking" checkbox. Cell boundaries from two consecutive time frames 
are shown in red and blue. The paired filopodia from these time points are marked by connected green dots. The three sliders specify the 
parameters for the critical distance, gap filling and duration filter (as described in the Method paper).

5. To display tracking results, click the "Show Results" button. The right panel now displays the time lines of all tracked filopodia as green 
vertical lines. The filled gaps are marked as empty circles. The slider under the panel allows you to choose and highlight individual filopodia 
in yellow. The beginning and the ending frames of a chosen track are shown also above the right panel. All this helps to assess the quality of 
the tracking. If needed the parameters of tracking can be adjusted and the tracking process can be repeated. The average track duration 
(filopodia life time) is shown in the right bottom corner.
    
6. If the detection and tracking work well for a chosen set of parameters, the above steps are unnecessary. You just need to import the file 
and immediately save the results by using the menu: File -> Save Results (.mat).


OUTPUT DATA:

"crL" is the critical length parameter. 

"crW" is the critical width parameter. 

"crD" is the critical distance parameter
. 
"crG" is the gap filling parameter
. 
"crF" is the time-life filter value


"N" is the number of detected protrusions in each time frame. 

"mL" is the mean length of detected protrusions (that are over crL in length) in each time frame
. 
"sL" is the standard deviation of detected protrusions (that are over crL in length) for each time frame. 

"Per" is the perimeter of the cell body in each time frame. 

"mtN" is the averaged over time N and "stN" is the standard deviation of N. 

"mtL" is the averaged over time mL and "stL" is the standard deviation of mL. 
"mtPer" is the averaged over time Per and "stPer" is the standard deviation of Per. 



"prN" is the number of tracked protrusions (only the ones with lifetime longer than crF are counted). 
"prL" is the mean (over time) length of each tracked protrusion
. 
"prML" is the max (over time) length of each tracked protrusion. 

"prT" is the lifetime of each tracked protrusion.


"mprL" is the average prL over all tracked protrusions, "sprL" is the standard deviation of prL.

"mprML" is the average prML over all tracked protrusions, "sprML" is the standard deviation of prML.

"mprT" is the average prT over all tracked protrusions, "sprT" is the standard deviation of prT. 

"POS" is the index matrix (or association matrix) with each column giving the protrusion index at each time frame. 
For example, 
 POS(5,7)=9 means that the tracked protrusion number 7 has been labeled as detected protrusion number 9 at the time frame 5.
 
"LEN" is a matrix of the length values with each column giving the length of the tracked protrusion as a function of time.
 

 
