RUN:

To use the MovThresh GUI, open "MovThresh.m" file in MATLAB and select the "Run" menu option.

INPUT:

The input for the GUI is assumed to be a gray-scale TIF file. It can be a single-frame or a multi-frame (stack) file. 
If you try to import a colored image or a multi-channel file, the GUI will always read the red component or the first channel. 
If you have your files in different format, please use ImageJ or any other available software for conversion to the TIF format. 

OUTPUT:

The output is a thresholded mask as a 16-bit TIF file. It is a single-frame or a multi-frame (stack) file depending on 
whether the input was a single- or multi-frame file. 

PROCESSING STEPS:

1. Import a file for processing using the GUI menu: File -> Import (.tif). The GUI will automatically threshold each frame and 
display the object's boundary and the threshold vales as a function of time.
Use the frame slider under the image to see the results for different frames and assess to quality of the automatic thresholding. 
If the boundary is properly detected, no further steps are required and you can save the masks using the menu: File -> Save as masks. 
Otherwise, proceed to step 2.

2. Select "Smoothed Curve" in the "Curve selection" box. The red curve will appear over the suggested threshold values (blue curve). 
Click "Re-threshold" button to threshold images according to the red-curve values. You can move the red curve up and down 
using the vertical slider on the right. To check the results for new values, click "Re-threshold". To change the range of 
the threshold values type the maximum and minimum values above and below the slider, respectively. If the boundary is properly detected now, 
no further steps are required and you can save the masks using the menu: File -> Save as masks. Otherwise, proceed to step 3.

3. Select "Custom Curve" in the "Curve selection" box. A black line with two pivot points for the first and the last frame 
will appear over the suggested threshold values. To create and/or move pivot points, select the time frame with the slider 
under the image and use the vertical slider on the right to change the threshold value. To remove a pivot point, select the time frame 
with the slider under the image and click the "Remove pivot" button. To remove all pivot points except for the first and the last frame, 
click "Reset mean line" button. To check the results for new threshold values, click "Re-threshold". To explore the results of 
thresholding for a given time frame within a range of threshold values, select the time frame and click "Threshold range". Now using 
the vertical slider on the right, you can see how the object boundary changes with the change of threshold values. With such manual 
adjustments any desired time dependence of threshold values can be set up. If the boundary is properly detected now, no further steps 
are required and you can save the masks using the menu: File -> Save as masks. If not, the amplitude thresholding is not a proper 
segmentation procedure for your data and a different tool is needed for segmentation.

WARNINGS:

1. Do not forget to click "Re-threshold" after manipulations with the threshold curves before saving the results.

2. If there are several objects in the image, the GUI will process only the biggest one. If two or more objects in the image 
are close in size, so that different objects get processed in different frames, we recommend to pre-process the data (e.g. in ImageJ) 
so that only one large object is present in the imported image. The GUI saves as a mask only one (the largest) object.

OPTIONS: 

1. "Zoom in", "Zoom out" and "Pan" tools are available in the toolbar under the menu for a closer look at the parts of boundary and 
assessment of the detection quality. 

2. "Colormap" in the menu allows you to change the default colormap of the image.

3. "Boundary line" in the menu allows you to change the color of the object boundary.

4. "Algorithm" in the menu allows you to switch between two algorithms of the automatic thresholding: histogram dip between noise 
and signal and the Otsu algorithm.

5. "Boost resolution" converts NxM image into (2N)x(2M) image using bilinear interpolation. If boosting is selected, the tif file 
will have to be imported again. The saved file will also have a (2N)x(2M) pixel size. 


